[Dr. S. Cenk Sahinalp](https://ccr.cancer.gov/staff-directory/s-cenk-sahinalp) is an accomplished scholar in bioinformatics. His research excellence is remarkable: apart from his shiny titles and outstanding publications, I also heard people, including both his students and collaborators, praising his research work in private. He is said to have a solid grasp of his research fields, and whatever paper he writes is guaranteed good quality.

However, a great researcher as he is, I have a very negative judgment of him, both as a supervisor and as a person, although I've never been his student or directly interacted with him in any way.

**That is because, he is very selfish, creating all sorts of problems for other people while pursuing his own interest, completely disregarding his responsibility or other people's interests. It may even suffice to say, he is slightly despicable.**

**The first problem: he is deceptive and doesn't care about his students.** Dr. Sahinalp has been a professor at Simon Fraser University (SFU) between 2003 and 2019, while also a professor at Indiana University Bloomington between 2013 and 2019. You think he spent around half-half time in those universities between 2013 and 2019? No. Since he started working at Indiana University, he rarely (if ever at all) returned to SFU in person, only holding a position in SFU; however, he still recruited students at SFU as if he were still there. When recruiting students to SFU, he never truthfully informed them of his physical absence. The students would find it out only after starting their studies at SFU, then they had to find another local professor/postdoc to act as an on-site co-supervisor, while having a weekly 1-1 video conferencing with Cenk. At least that's what happened to the students joining his SFU lab in 2016 Fall semester, but I guess other cohorts also weren't informed of Cenk's physical absence, based on Cenk's selfish and irresponsible character. 

You might think that video conferencing with Cenk is still very helpful for those students, but meeting Cenk in person should never be a privilege for them in the first place: it should be a right, unless they knew his absence before they accepted the PhD/MSc offer. Even with tools like video conferencing, face-to-face interaction is still indispensable, especially in a close relationship like a supervisor-student relationship, and even more so for supervisors and students who have never met in person. This distance and unfamiliarity don't bode well for the quality of guidance those students would get, but Cenk could not care less. This deception from Cenk probably constitutes a minor [fraud](https://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/acts/c-46/section-380.html).

**The second problem: his irresponsibility severely harms students.** There was a bioinformatics program in SFU called MADD-Gen.
